---
title: "Kokikai"
bg: white
color: black
---
# Kokikai Aikido

Kokikai Aikido was founded by Sensei Maruyama. Our practice is based on 4 basic principles:

> 1. Keep One Point to Develop Calmness
> 2. Relax Progressively
> 3. Find Correct Posture in Everything	
> 4. Develop your Positive Mind

These principles guide our practice and provide a touchstone against which we can evaluate our practice. 

### A typical class

A typical class consists of gentle warm-ups and stretches, falling and rolling (_ukemi_) practice,  Ki exercises and then technique practice.

Aikido movements often result in an attacker being thrown to the floor or pinned using joint locks. To enable safe and continued practice, 
we practice falling and rolling safely. These can seem intimidating at first to the beginner, since we have been conditioned to be afraid of falling. However, if you look at a toddler, there is no fear of falling. Learning the techniques to safely fall and roll will help you overcome
this conditioned fear. In fact, when you start aikido, learning to fall safely is the most valuable and applicable skill you learn. It has 
certainly saved me (Abhijit) on the road many times. 

Ki exercises can be thought of as elements of aikido movement that have been extracted out and are practiced separately as building blocks of 
aikido technique. We usually practice these to a count of five, and use this opportunity to understand how to make these foundational
elements more correct. 

Technique practice usually starts with more basic movements from a particular attack to practice fundamentals, and then 
progresses to more involved techniques or particular applications. We practice as partners, taking turns attacking (as _uke_) and 
defending (as _nage_). We emphasize a relaxed flow that allows the defender to diffuse an attack, while maintaining the basic principles himself. This practice cannot really be described in words, and must be experienced kinesthetically to begin to understand and absorb it. 
