---
title: "Practice"
bg: white
color: black
---

## A typical class


A typical class consists of gentle warm-ups and stretches, falling and rolling (_ukemi_) practice,  Ki exercises and then technique practice.

Aikido movements often result in an attacker being thrown to the floor or pinned using joint locks. To enable safe and continued practice, 
we practice falling and rolling safely. These can seem intimidating at first to the beginner, since we have been conditioned to be afraid of falling. However, if you look at a toddler, there is no fear of falling. Learning the techniques to safely fall and roll will help you overcome
this conditioned fear. In fact, when you start aikido, learning to fall safely is the most valuable and applicable skill you learn. It has 
certainly saved me (Abhijit) on the road many times. 

Ki exercises can be thought of as elements of aikido movement that have been extracted out and are practiced separately as building blocks of 
aikido technique. We usually practice these to a count of five, and use this opportunity to understand how to make these foundational
elements more correct. 

Technique practice usually starts with more basic movements from a particular attack to practice fundamentals, and then 
progresses to more involved techniques or particular applications. We practice as partners, taking turns attacking (as _uke_) and 
defending (as _nage_). We emphasize a relaxed flow that allows the defender to diffuse an attack, while maintaining the basic principles himself. This practice cannot really be described in words, and must be experienced kinesthetically to begin to understand and absorb it. 

### A note about the black belt

One of the most common questions we get is, how long does it take to get to black belt? There are many philosophic, and many tongue-in-cheek, 
answers to this question. However, we think that it is best not to focus on this question but to start your journey and learn. Even after many 
years of training, we (the instructors) are still learning. 

The black belt is certainly a milestone in a martial artist's path, but it is a beginning, not the end. To us, it signifies the end of the 
beginning part of our training, when one has a reasonable grasp of the fundamentals and is ready to move on to deeper understanding of the art.
Some have compared the black belt to a Bachelor's degree, where you know the basics pretty well but aren't really an expert. We would 
strongly recommend that you focus not on the goal of a black belt but learn, absorb and understand the art through regular practice. Ranks and belts will come along the way. 

### Uniforms

Aikido is typically practiced using Judo gi. We find that a single weave Judo gi or a heavy Karate gi tends to be the most comfortable. Hakama, 
or divided skirts, are worn by black belt practitioners. Belts are colored by rank, from white (beginner) through orange, blue and brown, to 
black. 

__Beginners :__ When you are first starting aikido practice with us, we encourage you to wear long-sleeved clothes like long-sleeved
t-shirts, sweatshirts without hoods and sweatpants. Jewellery like necklaces or dangling earrings are prohibited, and taking off all jewellery 
may be the most comfortable. Stone-less rings like some wedding bands and stud earrings may be acceptable; ask your instructor what he or she
would allow on the mat. Please ensure that  your clothing is clean and your nails are trimmed and filed. Cover any cuts you may have with band-aids or bandages, and let the instructor know if  you have any active injuries; we can work around those. 

### Attitude

Aikido is a martial art. Though our practice is safe and relatively injury-free, the practice does have the potential to cause injury or harm
to the practitioner if he is not careful. It requires attention and concentration to practice safely, absorb and understand. When you get on 
the mat, try and leave all other concerns off the mat and give your practice your undivided attention. This is your time, in your laboratory, 
to learn and practice this amazing martial art. 


